# CCFSalive
interactive visualization of bird banding data 

The San Francisco Bay Bird Observatory (SFBBO) is a small non-profit based out of Milpitas, California. We are dedicated to the conservation of birds and their habitats through science and outreach. The San Francisco Bay Area is a particularly interesting area for studying socio-environmental issues because of the tension between the area’s explosive population growth and biological importance. One of SFBBO’s greatest strengths is that we have built extensive datasets about local avian populations that span nearly four decades. Datasets of this size are difficult to find and extremely valuable for studying the long-term impacts of human interactions with the environment.

In our largest dataset, SFBBO has been documenting bird abundances and vegetation characteristics along Coyote Creek in San Jose, California, since 1982. The Bay Area has experienced dramatic changes over this time period, with increased urbanization and human encroachment into open spaces. Birds are sensitive to environmental changes, and can serve as important indicators of ecosystem health. With long-term population data, we can evaluate how bird populations have been impacted by these rapidly changing conditions. Historically we have focused on using these data for our own internal analyses or shared subsets of our data with partners and students in one-off projects. Moving into the future we want to make our data more widely accessible and easy for anyone to utilize.

Our goal for the SESYNC Summer Institute is to produce an interactive web interface where people can work with visualizations to explore our long-term data in conjunction with social environmental data that are publicly available (e.g., human population growth, land area use). Visitors would be able to engage with dynamic and continuously updated graphs and maps, with some options to filter and search the data. Not only would this interface be a powerful outreach and education tool, but it would also give people a taste of what analyses are possible and inspire new research and partnership ideas.

Collaborators:
